# castget(1) -- download RSS enclosures

## SYNOPSIS

`castget` [<OPTION>...] [<CHANNEL IDENTIFIER>...]

## DESCRIPTION

**castget** downloads RSS enclosures, for example podcasts, from RSS feeds.

RSS feeds are assigned <channel identifier>s in the configuration file
`.castgetrc`. Channels to be processed by `castget` are indicated by supplying
the channel identifiers as arguments. If no channel identifiers are provided,
all available channels are processed.

If run without any options, `castget` will perform the default action on all
channels to be processed. The default action is to download any enclosure not
already downloaded. Other actions may be performed by supplying one or more
options as arguments.

## OPTIONS

### Operations

  * `-c`, `--catchup`:
    Catch up with channels and exit.

  * `-l`, `--list`:
    List available enclosures that have not yet been downloaded, and exit.

  * `-h`, `--help`:
    Display help and exit.

  * `-V`, `--version`:
    Output version information and exit.

### Operation filters

  * `-n`, `--new-only`:
    Restrict operation to new channels only, i.e. to channels that have never been
    downloaded from or been caught up with before. Note that if a channel is added
    to the configuration and subsequently removed, its download history is
    preserved. This means that a channel that has been removed from the
    configuration file will not be considered as 'new' if it is added to the
    configuration again at a later time.

  * `-1`, `--first-only`:
    Restrict operation to the most recent item in each channel only.

  * `-f` <pattern>, `--filter`=<pattern>:
    Restrict operation to enclosures whose download URLs match the regular expression `pattern`. Note that this will override any regular expression filters given in the configuration file.

### Global options

  * `-r`, `--resume`:
    Resume aborted downloads. Make sure not to use this option if the RSS feed uses the same filename for multiple enclosures as this will corrupt existing downloads.

  * `-q`, `--quiet`:
    Do not print anything except error messages.

  * `-v`, `--verbose`:
    Print detailed progress information.

  * `-d`, `--debug`:
    Print (lots of) connection debug information.

  * `-p`, `--progress-bar`:
    Print a progress bar when downloading enclosures.

  * `-C` <filename>, `--rcfile`=<filename>:
    Override the default filename for the configuration file.

## EXAMPLES

  * Download all enclosures not already downloaded:

    $ castget

  * Download all enclosures not already downloaded from channel `foobar` and be verbose:

    $ castget -v foobar

  * List all enclosures not already downloaded:

    $ castget -l

  * Catch up with channel `foobar`:

    $ castget -c foobar

  * List the first available enclosure in all new channels:

    $ castget -1 -n -l

  * Catch up with items that match the regular expression `Freddies0[67]` in the channel `frederator`:

    $ castget -c -f "Freddies0[67]" frederator

## HTTP PROXY

  * To use a HTTP proxy, set the environment variable `http_proxy`:

    http_proxy=http://your.proxy.server:port/ castget

## SEE ALSO

castgetrc(5)

## BUGS

Please see the castget home page <http://mlj.github.io/castget> for
instructions on how to submit bug reports.

## AUTHORS

Marius L. Jøhndal, Jick Nan.

## COPYRIGHT

Castget is Copyright (C) 2005-2017 Marius L. Jøhndal.

Castget is Copyright (C) 2007 Jick Nan.

This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
